[Background]: 'ArcaneDoorBasement' 
"At once, their shoes skittered down the hall and back down to the basement.
 The Arcane Door stood resulute - candlelight flicking on it as though it will burst open.
 Conwenna observed."
 [Speaker]: 'Enchantress' 
"Listen carefully.
 Pun not intended.
 Insert the lockpicks.
 Find the right angles.
 Then speak the unealing charm, then rotate the (MORE) tumblers.
 Kindof envelope the amplifier charm over the picks when it's toughest.
 Lena nods, then kneels on the cold stone floor.
 Each lockpick slid in at different angles.
 And she leans in close to hear.
 Each little shift of the pick produced a tiny sound - if she managed to move them."
 [Speaker]: 'Lena' 
"One.
 Or that is two? Three minutes later: Skylan is more handy than I at this sort of thing.
 (Growls) Time for the unsealing charm.
 Lena activates it by submerging the exposed part of each lock.
 Each becomes outlined by a flare of yellow-brown.
 She moves the picks some more, one eye open."
 [Speaker]: 'Lena' 
C'mon you piece of junk [Speaker]: 'Enchantress' 
"(Glares) Four clicks - each lockpick moved counterclockwise - followed with a metallic twing.
 It did it! Lena shot to her feet wearing an anticipatory smile.
 And it opens with a dramatic woosh."
 [Speaker]: 'Lena' 
"Sorry."
 It worked!  [Speaker]: 'Enchantress' 
"Sure did.
 And who is - that? Lena blinks dumfounded: a bruised man leaning against a sloped dirt wall wearing a tan shirt."
 Skylan - he lives!  [Speaker]: 'Lena' 
"Skylan! Are you alright? (Notices cuts in addition to bruises) How did you-? Skylans face morphs between surprise as well as relief.
 Lena clamps herself around him like she won ten thousand gold coins."
 [Speaker]: 'Skylan' 
"By the Guardians."
 [Speaker]: 'Lena' 
"I thought you were lost."
 [Speaker]: 'Skylan' 
"Yeah.
 No thanks to this.
 (Points to a massive, dark ravine) And didn't haves lockpicks.
 Then there's my companion  The Enchantress's eyes redden up at the admitting thought of not seeing her grandmother's ghost.
 However, she manages to  accept it."
 [Speaker]: 'Enchantress' 
"(Sniffling) Not a strange voice after all- (Expression shifts to bewilderment) Grandmother didn't make it up! (Voice trails off. ) "
[Speaker]: 'Skylan' 
Um, Him [Speaker]: 'Lena' 
"She grips her dagger's hilt.
 (Takes a sharp breath)  ONE OF THEM.
 Everyone gazes with shock.
 It is the size of possibly three of The Enchantress' house combined.
 Leathery green blanket its body.
 A massive dragon laying on the right of the door's clearing.
 Puzzled, Conwenna examines the doorway felt along its frame: a sizzling, invisible surface."
 [Speaker]: 'Enchantress' 
"Its a portal, Lena.
  Grandma's folk tale about the green dragon was real after all."
 [Speaker]: 'Skylan' 
"(Firm voice) Good thing she kept it at bay.
 She approaches it with caution.
 When she was out of arms reach, it stirs and looks at her.
 Well, down at her."
  [Speaker]: 'Dragon' 
"(A pleased rumbling voice) Ah.
 Conwenna.
 Your grandmother would have been impressed you did unseal the door in less than a year.
 Now, its your turn to keep our pact.
 Agree, and I keep providing my skills, and we face the Arane Pulse.
 Disagree, and I fly off forever.
 The Enchantress scratches her chin.
 She looks back at Lena and Skylan."
  [Speaker]: 'Enchantress' 
"Here's the catch.
  Go outside and, um, hopefully not die.
 Maybe loose a third of my power, which is hard to know for sure.
 Or, let him go and wait it out here? Extremely rare is a skilled, talking dragon in our lands.
 Lena had let go of her dagger.
 Gears spun in her head."
 [Speaker]: 'Lena' 
What is the chance of survival? [Speaker]: 'Enchantress' 
"One in six."
  [Speaker]: 'Skylan' 
"Shucks.
 Had I brought my historical graph scroll, I'd figure out the timing."
 [Speaker]: 'Lena' 
"Yeah, that was probably my responsibility.
 And now I know for next time.
 Enchantress, can you try? If it only depleats a third of your power, Skylan and I can get out alive to Strand's Crossing.
  By now, we might not make it even if we had more dragons."
 [Speaker]: 'Skylan' 
"Get to keep him that way.
 A long moment later, she faced the dragon again."
 [Speaker]: 'Enchantress' 
"Come help me.
 I'll make you small enough to fit through the door.
 The dragon nods its great green snout and rises.
 The Enchantress says a phrase, waves something Lena can't see.
 It shrinks to the size of a large dog.
 At the door, Lena looks her in the eye with a great smile."
 [Speaker]: 'Lena' 
"You will be known by everyone who hears our story.
 Your grandmother would be proud."
 [Speaker]: 'Skylan' 
"(offers dirty hand. Grimaces at sore muscle)
 What she said.
 They exit the ravine and fast walk back up the basement stairs.
 Conwenna left it unlocked.
 And their guess was almost right: every tree with purple pulsating roots around sounded with distortions.
 Her and the dragon, returned to normal size, stood tall in her lawn with its wings spread.
 Lena and Skylan huddled inside the cracked open door.
 Each time the Pulse hit it, it bounced off, to everyone's relief.
  EPILOGUE Lena meets with Conwenna on the weekends at the house.
 Became pretty good at the tougher powers the more they sparr.
 Her enormous appetite for knowledge caused Lena to learn much on the fly.
 Skylan still wanders the woods when safe to do so.
 From Strand's Crossing if need be.
 He visits Lena and their new friend regularly, being careful with his footing.
 Conwenna - the Enchantress - spends her weekends training her new apprentice and making minor politics.
 Selling potions and powers continued being the main business.
 Her othe goal of becoming a truly powerful sorceress will help her tap into the Arcane Pulse, studying and improving so much she may put the mages at Strand's Crossing to shame.
 She misses her grandmother, however, no longer grieves.